# ThunderSVM How To
This page is for instructions of contributing to ThunderSVM. ThunderSVM has been used by many users, and everyone can contribute to ThunderSVM to make it better.

## Install ThunderSVM
To use ThunderSVM, we need to install the following software:

* ```cmake``` 2.8 or above
* ```gcc``` 4.8 or above for Linux and MacOS; ```Visual C++``` for Windows

If you want to use GPUs, you also need to install CUDA.

* [CUDA](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads)

After installing the dependencies, you can start compiling ThunderSVM.

* Clone ThunderSVM repository
```bash
git clone git@github.com:zeyiwen/thundersvm.git
```

If you don't have a GPU or want to run ThunderSVM purely on CPUs, you need to add a submodule to ThunderSVM by the following command. Please refer to [Working without GPUs](http://thundersvm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/get-started.html#working-without-gpus) for more information.
```bash
# in thundersvm root directory
git submodule init eigen && git submodule update
```

* Build the executable for Linux or MacOS, use the following commands.
```bash
cd thundersvm
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j
```
If ```make -j``` doesn't work, please simply use ```make``` instead.

* Build the executable for Windows, use the following example commands. You need to change the Visual Studio version if you are using a different version of Visual Studio.
```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..  -DCMAKE_WINDOWS_EXPORT_ALL_SYMBOLS=TRUE -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=TRUE -G "Visual Studio 14 2015 Win64"
```
The above commands generate some Visual Studio project files, open the Visual Studio project in the ```build``` directory to start building ThunderSVM on Windows. Please note that CMake should be 3.4 or above for Windows.

You can now use ThunderSVM, and the options of executing ThunderSVM are available [here](parameters.md). Please refer to [Getting Started](get-started.md) for some examples of training SVMs using ThunderSVM.

## How can I do grid search?
   Since ThunderSVM supports cross-validation. You can write a simple grid.sh script like the following one. Then run ``` sh grid.sh [dataset]```.  You may modify the script to meet your needs. Indeed, ThunderSVM supports the same command line parameters as LIBSVM. So the script grid.py in LIBSVM can be used for ThunderSVM with minor modifications.
```
#!/usr/bin/bash
DATASET=$1
OPTIONS=
N_FOLD=5
for c in 1 3 10 30 100
do
  for g in 0.1 0.3 1 3 10
    do
      bin/thundersvm-train -c ${c} -g ${g} -v ${N_FOLD} ${OPTIONS} ${DATASET}
    done
done
```

## Improve Documentations
Most of the documents can be viewed on GitHub, although the documents look much better in Read The Doc. The HTML files of our documents are generated by [Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/), and the source files of the documents are written using [Markdown](http://commonmark.org/). In the following, we describe how to setup the Sphinx environment for ThunderSVM.

* Install sphinx
```bash
pip install sphinx
```

* Install Makedown Parser
```bash
pip install recommonmark
```
Note that ```recommonmark``` has a bug when working with Sphinx in some platforms, so you may need to hack into transform.py to fix the problem by yourself. You can find the instruction of hacking in [this link](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/3800).

* Install Sphinx theme
```bash
pip install sphinx_rtd_theme
```

* Generate HTML

   Go to the "docs" directory of ThunderSVM and run:
```bash
make html
```

At this point, make sure you have generated the documents of ThunderSVM. You can build the documents in your machine to see the outcome.

## Contribute to ThunderSVM
You need to fetch the latest version of ThunderSVM before submitting a pull request.
```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/zeyiwen/thundersvm.git
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/master
```
Since ThunderSVM runs on GPUs, please test your code using ```make -j runtest``` on your local machine. You can also add more test cases in the test module of ThunderSVM. If ```make -j runtest``` doesn't successfully compile, please use ```make runtest```.